"Bardo is, of course, particularly, it is not that everybody has this meditation part.
It is generally for the practitioners, because everybody doesn't practice.
Also, they don't do the meditation, or situations, meditating.
But in this case, it is those who are practicing "Bardo" of the meditation.
And again, "Bardo" is not necessarily only the next.
After death, "Bardo" is as we said, or the teachings said,
"from the time we deluded until we were in enlightenment, whole thing is really "Bardo".
"Bardo" is nothing kind of necessarily unusual, or bad, or strange, but it is just "Bardo" like
that.
So when we are, for example, practicing meditation, then we should make that meditation more
college.
College is not meditation. College practices. That is so important.
I mean the "Bardo" of the meditation. Like, meditation is done.
Here, translated, the common politics in the Tibetan is "Santi".
"Santi" is, I think, in Sanskrit world, "Dyan", and translated into Tibetan, "Santi".
"Sampa" "Tepo" in the Tibetan. "Sampa" means "mind". "Tepo" means "step".
So very stable mind. That actually means concentration of meditation.
So meditation, as we all know, in the genders speaking, in Buddhism point of view, or Buddhist
teaching,
there are two meditations. "Shamatha" meditation and "Vipassana" meditation.
These two are the meditations. "Shamatha" is then what? It is stabilizing the mind.
First in our mind, we all know so much Buddhism, so much unsteady.
And most of the time, our mind is carried by with all different emotional thoughts, one after
another.
And those, generally, in the teaching, again, say there are three kind of thoughts.
And positive thoughts, negative thoughts, and neutral thoughts.
And we start on a high light of the old, every kind of observing to our thoughts,
distantly looking to what kind of really thought we have among the three categories.
Most of the time, it may be something connected with emotions, our thoughts.
And then there may be, or more, very neutral, negative thoughts, very little positive thoughts.
If we count the percentage level, maybe 60% may be emotional thoughts, 20% may be, or 25% really
neutral thoughts, or 30%.
And maybe 15% or 10% positive thoughts. Maybe that's how it is.
It is, and that's what we are, whether we believe it or not.
And we're talking more practical, looking inwardly to ourself, by ourself, without watching big
laws behind.
And we look ourself, and everything more practical, think that's really the way out most of the
time.
And then that positive, negative means what?
Most of the time it's then as good as thought, the three positives, or the five positives, or the
six positives, those are the negatives.
So that our mind is most of the time wondering, combination of those three, five, or six, or all
kind of high light, one of those, those are the most of the time, both.
And then neutral thoughts, and positive. And this neutral, positive and negative is the strong
producer of the karmic affectors, a color of teaching.
That produce strongly karmic. That, what we do, it responds back to ourself.
We accumulated that karmic where, in the teachings said, in our life, so according the strength and
the duty, consequence of the action of this our mind, of the whether is positive, whether is
negative, we create the karmic.
And the positive actions result in the karmic, known as then good karmas.
And they get a result to action, or result in action in the bad karmas, that consequence of that.
And that karmic kind of echoes back to ourself.
This is generally the law of the nature.
Whatever we do, it really responds to most of the time that we even can see that, that we see anger
brings more anger.
Law of kindness brings more law of kindness, and joy brings more joy.
And sadness brings more sadness.
And that we can see, it's not natural, it's hiding, deceiving us, but we can really see.
Even we see, even we know, due to our ego clinging, due to our goal, this department, we act.
Reluctantly and kind of almost all of ourself, then we do all these things.
The Buddha pointed highlight all this, pointed out, and highlighted all that.
And therefore, we as practitioners, we try to correct those things by ourself, with mindfulness,
with assistive alertness, and consciousness.
That we try to really correct those things.
And that is not a spent practice of dharma.
So in this way, when we started thinking of the Vedic concentrations, so emotions are always very,
very disturbances.
And therefore, then this Sharmata meditation is very important at the beginning of time,
particularly always, of course, it's important, always, that Sharmata meditation.
And in the Buddha teaching, as I think, maybe you've heard that, there is many emotions.
For example, when you have more, the attachment problems in the Buddha teaching in the Sharmata
level.
Buddha said, meditate on them, come like, what's called, something that you don't attach to.
Meditate on them.
That means attachment, when we attach it, we're always looking on the surface.
Surface, then we attach it.
But Buddha said, look deep of them.
Behind that scene of their surface, look deep, deeply, deeply, then think, oh, what is that?
When you attach, what that has, even the surface looks so nice, it maybe looks like a cover-up,
cover-up things.
But behind the scene, there is also smellings.
And the Buddha still thinks that the smellings, those smellings, not just the only thing on the
surface.
And also sometimes, I'm sure you read that also, the ugliness, ugliness, dirty.
This is not just Buddha making up there.
But those are the really truly existing behind the scene of that ongoing attachment.
So therefore, Buddha said, if you so attach it, so much attachment, think of those behind the
scenes.
There's many different categories of that, that you go forward, one after another, all that, that.
And trying to break down your attachment so we can rest our mind that we're more comfortable,
peaceful.
And then we have about emotions of anger.
And Buddha said, meditate on loving kindness, more bring love, loving kindness, bring more love.
Why?
For example, when we get angry, angry must be doing some mistakes of others, others do some
mistakes.
They're doing something that we don't feel happy.
But again, looking behind the scenes, they're doing that activity because it's not so wise.
They're doing that activity because of the stupidity, ignorance.
So therefore, it is not the error of that person's death. But it's a mistake, of course it is
stupid.
Therefore, I should be loved, kind, trying to bring more love.
Even he didn't express him into the love, but bring more passion to thought.
Passion is part of the loving kindness.
Bring more passion, more tolerance, and let him go. Apply to those ketones.
So therefore, in the teachings, that will also reduce the restless of the mind,
of the wildness and the very more calm and peaceful of the Shammata meditation.
Will there be many different versions of the Shammata meditations?
And then, if we get so much, again, problem with ignorance,